# clvideoproject
Comm Lab Fall 2020- Final Video Project


Project Name: A view from the other side
 
Project Description: 
Our project is a two-part video contrasting the experiences of being on campus (campus video) and being at home (home video) for the fall semester during the COVID-19 pandemic. More specifically, for our project, we created two different videos (~2-3 minutes each) to tell a story about Ariya’s experience being on campus and Erica’s experiences being at home. The home video portrays a close to normal daily experience of someone in a country during the pandemic where COVID-19 is under control (Taiwan), which we are aware is not the case in many other countries. The campus video, on the other hand, portrays quite dull day to day experiences, especially during the time in the semester where many students have left campus early to go home and come out of quarantine in time for celebrations with their family. We also wanted to bring in feelings of nostalgia for the other location (ex. Missing home when being on campus and missing campus when being home) as it is something that most people will be able to. As for the interactive component, we wanted to keep it simple to not take away from the videos. We pose a question to guide the audience to pick a video to watch but in the end the audience has freedom to watch either one in either order they want. The two videos do not need to be viewed in any particular order – they are there to complement each other


Process:
Video Recording:
Due to limitations of the equipment we have access to, all the clips were recorded through our phones. For both the home and campus video, we began by looking through our phones to see what clips we already have. We then spend the next to weeks or so collecting clips organically and see what we end up with and how it can fit to create a story for both the home and campus videos. We wanted to depict things as naturally as we could which was why we went for this approach of just documenting our day to day for a while. We then filled in any gaps in the story by going out to collect specific clips.

Video Editing:
We selected among all the clips in various settings and through various angles to give a clear storyline - a typical day in the environment (home/campus). The videos both start with normal or lighthearted scenes and gradually turn into a sad and lonely tone which induce the protagonist to wonder about what life would be like if they were in the alternative location. For the home video, Erica went to see her friends and after happy events like picnics and concert, she needed to go home alone, and that’s when she again felt lonely and started to wonder what would the life be like at campus, which was expressed visually by the time lapse of sunrise in NYUAD. For the campus video, Ariya started her sunny day with a cup of coffee, wholesome encountering with her friends and campus cats etc, but when she got back to her dorm and found it was only her in that room doing all the mundane activities like homework, dishes, laundries, she started to wonder what life would be like if she was at home.
The interesting part is that the campus video and the home video echo with each other. Although each individual video is a complete story, the two videos together make a cycle.The end of home vid is the start of campus vid, and the end of campus vid is start of home vid, resembling the way we, although enjoying our choices (to be at home/campus), will constantly thinking about the other side.

Sound:
For the sound we included the ambience noise to furtherly engage the viewers in the environment/context. But mainly, we have two background music for two major moods - happy/joyful or blue/lonely. These two pieces of music were used to serve as a foil for the two moods and even possibly accentuate them. The two pieces of music also serve as a natural classification of these random daily clips to foster understanding and empathy between the protagonist in the video and the audience who is watching it.

Website:
The website start look was designed to be very minimalistic and toned down with a single question in a large font on top to prompt the viewer to explore the page. The font chosen is light but large to make it a focus yet non-imposing. If they move over one of the icons, campus or home, it becomes bigger and colored and a trailer of the associated video starts playing in the background in a loop. We didn’t want to add any text with the icons or explain what they are so the trailers are meant to incentivize the viewer to click and watch the video but they are very short 10 second clips with reduced color and opacity so it does not overwhelm visually or take away too much from the experience of watching the actual video. For the trailers, we tried to include scenes from the videos that represented some of the journey that the video takes and generate interest. In particular, the last scene of the trailer is supposed to have the same imagery as the icon for that location to reinforce the relationship between the two. On clicking the icon, the video appears and covers all the other elements on the page so that it is the main focus. It is hosted on youtube so all the control interactivity is from there. We added a close button to return to the start page so that the viewer can explore the other connected video also. The page is set up with flexboxes so when the window size is reduced, the elements all resize accordingly.


Reflection/Evaluation:
Overall, we are quite satisfied with how the final product turned out, both the videos and its presentation on the website. However, we did encounter some difficulties and there are some aspects that we wish we did differently. First of all, it turned out to be quite difficult to get the shots that we wanted. This was both due to the limitations of having to film alone and the quality of our phone cameras. We lost some nice shots due to quality issues, shakiness of lighting, for instance. Furthermore, it was especially difficult to film on campus especially towards the end of the semester where there is just not much going on compounded with regulations regarding filming off-campus. This limited the shots we could include. We also figured that our approach of organically filming may not have been the best way to go about filming as it did not give us a clear direction. If we had more time perhaps this approach could work. But since our time was quite limited, planning our shots more carefully would have allowed us to take better shots and save time during editing. Lastly, the videos were too large to be uploaded on GitHub directly so we had to host them on Youtube. This meant that we had a lot less maneuverability with the controls of the video and how the viewer could interact with them and we had to exclude some potential ideas for interactivity because of this. Positioning of the webpage elements was much smoother with the use of flexboxes. Despite all these challenges and pitfalls, we enjoyed the process and are proud of what we were able to piece together.

Ariya Chaloemtoem, Erica Wu, Khola Jamshad, Treedom Zhang
10/12/2020
